# MODEL1206070000: MODEL1206070000

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1206070000.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1206070000.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Bazzani2012 - Genome scale networks of P.falciparum and human hepatocyte

This model is described in the article:  
**Network-based assessment of the selectivity of metabolic drug targets in Plasmodium falciparum with respect to human liver metabolism.**   
Bazzani S, Hoppe A, HolzhÃ¼tter HG.  
_BMC Syst Biol._ 2012 Aug 31;6(1):118. PMID:
[2937810](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22937810)  

Abstract:

ABSTRACT: BACKGROUND: The search for new drug targets for antibiotics against
Plasmodium falciparum, a major cause of human deaths, is a pressing scientific
issue, as multiple resistance strains spread rapidly. Metabolic network-based
analyses may help to identify those parasite's essential enzymes whose
homologous counterparts in the human host cells are either absent, non-
essential or relatively less essential. RESULTS: Using the well-curated
metabolic networks PlasmoNet of the parasite Plasmodium falciparum and
HepatoNet1 of the human hepatocyte, the selectivity of 48 experimental
antimalarial drug targets was analyzed. Applying in silico gene deletions, 24
of these drug targets were found to be perfectly selective, in that they were
essential for the parasite but non-essential for the human cell. The
selectivity of a subset of enzymes, that were essential in both models, was
evaluated with the reduced fitness concept. It was, then, possible to quantify
the reduction in functional fitness of the two networks under the progressive
inhibition of the same enzymatic activity. Overall, this in silico analysis
provided a selectivity ranking that was in line with numerous in vivo and in
vitro observations. CONCLUSIONS: Genome-scale models can be useful to depict
and quantify the effects of enzymatic inhibitions on the impaired production
of biomass components. From the perspective of a host-pathogen metabolic
interaction, an estimation of the drug targets-induced consequences can be
beneficial for the development of a selective anti-parasitic drug.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels)
and identified by:
[MODEL1206070000](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/MODEL1206070000) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models.
PMID: [20587024](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication>http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/] for more
information.


